The station of the cross presents sermons for everyday living, powerful sermons from faithful and inspirational priests.
Our first sermon for today is entitled Making a Manly Lent.
When I was a child, I spoke as a child.
I understood as a child.
I thought as a child.
But when I became a man, I put away the things of a child.
Words taken from the lesson for this queen quits Jesus Sunday.
And we heard this from the gospel.
Then Jesus took unto him the twelve and said to them, Behold, we go up to Jerusalem.
And all things shall be accomplished, which were written by the prophets concerning the son of man.
for he shall be delivered to the Gentiles and shall be mocked and scourged and spit upon.
And after they have scourged him, they will put him to death.
And the third day he shall rise again.
And they understood none of these things in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost.
Amen.
And they understood none of these things.
Another lint is upon us.
Do we understand that it might be our last?
We should want to make it count.
Do we understand how necessary Lent is for gaining the grace is necessary that are going to be available to us at Holy Week and Easter?
The grace is necessary to save our souls and enter into the kingdom of God.
Lent is the time to put away the things of a child and become manly.
We need a manly Lent.
And I think you all know it is true.
And Lent is now here.
And it's time to be manly then.
And St. Thomas Aquinas comes to our aid in understanding just what is manliness.
We know it from its opposite.
That is from effeminacy, effeminacy.
Thus he defines effeminacy as thus, a sorrow and an unwillingness to be separated from pleasure,
in order to pursue what is arduous and difficult.
It's a sorrow and an unwillingness to be separated from pleasure in order to pursue what is arduous and difficult.
In these modern times, the focus is often upon what brings the most pleasure and ease of life.
Even the arduous tasks of old are made easy through power tools, electricity, and even robots.
What is more, we have all the gadgets and devices necessary to keep us entertained nearly all the time.
We have music, TV, movies, internet, iPhones, iPads, iPods, eye, eye, eye.
It's always eye, isn't it?
It's all about me.
And so on it goes.
Once man gives in to the simple pleasures that these central things afford him, a lot of sensory input, a lot of sensory data, that's essential.
His passions are more and more inclined to the easy life.
What's the result?
A certain effeminacy sets in such that the people of our day become weak-willed and reluctant to pursue the arduous and difficult good, namely the virtues and ultimately eternal life.
Now, virtue has a base word, a root word of vir, virtue.
Vir means man.
Being virtuous is a manlier endeavor.
By the way, even if someone's in great physical shape, many are, doesn't make them manlier.
It's whether you're virtuous or not.
That's what makes you manlier.
Not how many push-ups you can do or how strong you are.
You're still as feminine as can be.
Because they refuse to practice virtue.
Now Saint Paul warned of such times as these, calling them dangerous.
He describes them to St. Timothy, thus, men shall be lovers of themselves, covetous, haughty, proud, blasphemers, disobedient to parents, ungrateful, without peace, slanderers, incontinent, unmerciful, without kindness, traitors, stubborn, puffed up, and lovers of pleasure,
more than of God.
Lovers of pleasure, more than of God.
Thank you, Saint Paul.
On the other hand, His Majesty, our Lord and Savior, gives us a clear model of manliness, especially in his climbing the mountain in the gospel today to go and die in his passion and the cross for us at the top of the mountain.
The saints followed him up.
All the saints were with him as it were.
on the same mountain.
And thereby they show us how to be manly ourselves and what we can do for Lent to become manly.
Let's turn to some of these saints, some of these holy people.
Start with the holy man of tours.
Although not canonized, very holy man, wonder worker.
His name is Leo de Pont and if you haven't read his book, I recommend it.
All men should read this book, the holy man of tours.
Well, he hated to hear blasphemy.
so much so that he would slug people even in public for using our Lord's name in vain.
Once he slapped a lady in church for misbehaving, but later he realized these acts did not convert anyone.
He then took to practicing more private penances under the direction of a good confessor and the results were marvelous.
He took his frustrations with evil in the world out on himself rather than on other people.
People responded to him.
His grace-filled gentleness changed their lives with many miracles, many miracles, and countless conversions following.
What he did, Leo de Pont, was manly.
The saints wielded the sword of love
a sort of charity, a great effect.
For true love, true charity is difficult and arduous.
Demanding we first love God above all things with our whole heart, mind, soul, and strength.
And then we love our neighbor for the love of God and we love ourselves at the bottom of the list.
That's the hard part, isn't it?
You mean I come last?
That's correct.
I'm nothing.
We love ourselves last.
St. Catherine of Siena went so far to say that we must even have a certain holy hatred of self.
That's manly.
Lent is a time to practice holy hatred of self.
Saints loved their souls more than their bodies.
We could put it like that.
Willingly putting off legitimate pleasures to say no to themselves and legitimate things.
so that they could say no to themselves when those illegitimate things presented themselves in temptations.
Do we have to drink that?
The answer is no.
Eat that?
No.
Eat between meals?
Absolutely not.
Sleep that much?
Use that snooze alarm?
Take such long and hot showers?
They always resoundingly say no.
Ask for this ability to say no
from Christ himself, ask for it through our lady to replace any love that is dominating us in this life.
Thus, St. Augustine prayed like this, help me love and thee, oh Lord, what I am seeking in fill in the blank.
What are you struggling with?
Probably something to do with yourself.
And so you pray to find whatever it is you're desiring, you find it in Christ.
You find it in heaven.
You find what his fulfillment is, what his proper ordered desire is.
Pray a hell Mary.
Help me love in thee what I was seeking in.
Fill in the blank.
That's St. Augustine.
We have other examples.
We know that Job was manly.
He endured the fury of hell unleashed upon him and he did not crack.
One of his secrets was purity of body, purity of mind and heart.
purity of his eyes.
He said, I made a covenant with my eyes that I would not so much as think upon a virgin.
How many images, books, magazines, places are dedicated to impurity in our day.
This produces nothing but soft and effeminate men.
In the Psalms we read, I walked in the innocence of my heart in the midst of my house.
I will not set before my eyes any unjust thing.
I hated the workers of iniquity.
How easily is it true?
How easily we set before our eyes what is unjust, what is impure, what is not holy, what attempts to divide the beautiful from the true and the good.
From moral theology, we know that
If there is only one unjust thing in these images, these devices, whatever we're using, one scene in a movie, one bad line or some bad part of a musical composition, then that bad thing corrupts the whole and it needs to be discarded.
That's the manly thing to do.
I will not set before my eyes any, any unjust thing.
The manly thing is to put all such impure things away and to limit our overall use of electronic media or even balancing it with equal time of doing other, more natural, healthy and holy things.
The manly soul will have an intense love for the truth, the good and the beautiful.
As being inseparable, they cannot truly be separated.
But the world's always trying to separate them.
And thus we get snagged, drawn into something.
This is the age of disinformation.
I'm finished calling it the age of information.
It is not.
This is the age of disinformation beyond your guard.
Never before have so many people had such universal access to information and yet have been so incredibly ignorant of what is really true.
The manly soul will study
He will learn and meditate upon the church's ancient and constant teachings, thereby preserving himself from the errors so widespread during our time.
These saintly souls will follow the saying of Pliny, live as if you would die tomorrow, but study as if you will live forever.
The manly soul will not expose himself to anything not true or good.
Instead, they will burn books
destroy bad movies, delete video games.
That's a good liton resolution right there to clean out our libraries, electronic and physical, and study what is true, good and beautiful as being inseparable.
Now there's many more examples that can be found in the lives of the saints such as St. Isaac's Jokes, returning to the Indians, the savages, even after they chewed off his fingers.
Sometimes dads don't want to go to work given the moral chaos found in the workplace.
Some dads don't want to go home after work.
Perhaps there is even more chaos at home or past failures are hard to deal with.
The manly thing is to go back to the mission field and fight for the salvation of souls, including our own.
The manly thing is to do our duties of state and life, day in and day out, even when it is difficult and arduous.
The incorrigible, the incorrigible Irish drunk Matt Talbot, he found sobriety by attending Mass two times a day and three times on Sunday, as well as making evening visits to the bus of sacrament, breaking his sleep at night, singing hymns to our lady, and giving alms, lots of alms.
That was manly.
St. Joan of Arc made the dispirited and feminized French army stop blaspheming, dismiss all women camp followers, made them go to confession and attend daily mass.
The army became manly very quickly and steam rolled its way to ream to crown their king, one of the greatest military
victories in the history of the world.
Manliness is not found just in men.
She would sleep in her cold armor for modesty's sake in the open field when needed.
St. Teresa of Jesus, the great Carmelite mystic and re-founder, reformer, she wanted manly nuns because she wanted courageous nuns to stay the course of their profession.
Saint Bernadette, our beloved Saint Bernadette, was stood every force brought against her, whether it would be from down below in hell or high above in the clergy and religious.
With everyone else lining up in between, she took it all.
She held her ground.
Her manliness brought about countless miracles, healings and conversions.
You see, manly souls
are pious, they're reverent, they're deeply devoted to the Blessed Virgin Mary.
They will do pious and reverent things, even in public, making that sign of the cross when it seems like everybody's looking at you.
Once I was in a waiting room in an airport, a big plane, lots of people, and it was noon.
I said, I'm going to pray the Angelus.
And I stood up and prayed the Angelus, put my hands together and knelt at the
And the word has made flesh and a guy came up to me afterwards and said, thank you so much for that.
You have no idea what they can do to other people.
And what are we afraid of?
We're praying to the real true God.
Why are we so afraid of that?
The Muslims aren't afraid to pray out in the public.
Stop being afraid.
You're a true believer.
We don't care to the stink of us.
We're serving God first.
And they will also seek to make reparation rather than make apologies.
That's the true pious manly soul.
And this is how Bernadette came out, the victor on the other end.
And finally, I want to give one more example, St. Thomas Moore.
His victory flowed first and foremost from his unflinching fidelity to all authority and his strict adherence to God's established order.
In a word, we could say that the whole of Thomas Moore's life
was caught up in the maintenance of authority.
One of his biographers, Peter Ackroyd, put it like this.
He embodied the old order of hierarchy and authority at the very moment when it began to collapse all around him.
Consider an anecdote.
When Martin Luther wrote the three works against the Catholic faith, King Henry VIII countered Luther with his own book.
And St. Thomas More was asked to review and reorganize it, which he did.
When he read the part about papal primacy, More hesitated.
Papal primacy refers to the Pope's full and supreme teaching legislative judicial and sacerdotal power in the church.
There is no higher authority on the earth than the Pope.
He thought King Henry had gone too far and had given away some of his authority to the Pope.
And he prayed about it.
He studied, he consulted theologians and priests.
And Thomas realized that he himself was wrong.
The light of the world is our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.
And the Pope is his vicar.
He who hears you, he said, to us hears me.
He who rejects you, rejects me.
And he who rejects me, rejects him who sent me ironically.
It was over papal promise that King Henry would later kill both Thomas More and John Fisher.
They adhered to authority when the king did not.
The error of Russia has spread west with Henry making London a sort of fourth Rome.
Now consider a comparison between the Manly Moor and the effeminate Martin Luther.
I'm going to get this point across because we're in a very dangerous time.
St. Thomas embodied the ideal medieval Christian man pious, ordered, virtuous.
Whereas the effeminate Luther embodied the enlightened modern man, autonomous, free-thinking, nontraditional, pleasure-loving.
Luther disobeyed his father completely and irrevocably.
Moore, however, obeyed and submitted to his father John Moore
even to the point of kneeling down to his father in public to ask for his blessing.
Such topics of order, authority, piety, fatherhood became repeated themes in his writings.
Moore was the model of filial piety.
Luther, a lawyer, abandoned the law to enter a monastery out of fearful experience in a thunderstorm, even though his confessor said he'd need not take a vow.
or take that vow seriously, made in a moment of terror, was in binding.
Moore abandoned the charter house, he wanted to be a monk.
And he embraced his calling as a husband, a father, and worked as a lawyer.
Luther would later break his vows and embrace a nun.
Moore would move with ease in any institutional hierarchy to which he was attached.
Luther was seized by violent fits of remorse and panic fear in any fixed or formal environment.
Luther attacked King Henry VIII by riding against him and calling him all kinds of names for opposing him.
He took it very personal.
Moore responded by defending the king.
Moore maintained and obeyed all the precepts of the law.
Luther wished to expel the law altogether from the
spiritual realm at least, justification by faith alone, sola fide and sola scriptura were his models, upon which authority rested with himself, not God.
Moore believed in the communion of the faithful living and dead.
Luther affirmed the unique significance of the individuals calling towards God, personal Lord and Savior.
Moore's irony and sense of humor and detachment were very different.
from the self-absorption and seriousness of Luther.
Moore's writings were clear and lucid, light shining in a difficult time to counter heresy and error.
Luther's were marked by conflict and struggle and confusion.
A prefigurement of Hegel, Marx, and Darwin.
Moore attended Daily Mass.
Luther would fall into fits at Mass and yell out, non-sum, non-sum.
in Latin, meaning I am not.
I am not present.
And so Saint Thomas More shows us the manly soul adheres to legitimately established authority, come what may, because the saintly soul knows that all authority comes from God.
The manly soul saw everything as sees everything as coming from the hand of God, even as it's killing them.
You see, they martyred.
They said, I'm God's servant first and the King's second.
This means it is effeminate to talk back to parents or any legitimately established superior, to lampoon them, to mock them, to criticize them unduly out of order, to disobey their legitimate commands or to undermine
their power.
These are just a few reasons why we have Lent and why we should take it most seriously and use it well.
Lent is the time to renew our efforts at becoming manly, saintly souls, capable of difficult and arduous things, capable of wielding that sword of charity properly for God and man.
Making the mountain climb in company with this majesty
to the very top.
In embracing such manly ways, we're striving not to be counted among those disciples who did not understand and ended up running away, not understanding the sufferings of our Lord and by extension the sufferings and trials of His Holy Church.
Let us make this Lent count.
Let us make a manly Lent this year.
It may be our last.
May we all be saved souls together in heaven in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost.
Amen.
We hope you enjoyed this sermon entitled, Making a Manly Lent.
Our next sermon for today is entitled, Saint Drexel.
the rich young woman.
The name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit, amen.
Very providentially, these readings today seem to so well fit the saint that we celebrate today, St. Catherine Drexel, who is an American saint born in 1858 to prominent Philadelphia family, the Drexel family, you may even see that name
sometimes today in the financial circles where her father was a very wealthy financier.
She became imbued with love of forgotten neighbor.
She took an avid interest in the material and spiritual well-being of black and Native Americans.
And she began by donating money, some of the wealth that her father had left to her or gave to her to invest, you might say, she started investing it in the poor.
and until she had an audience with the Pope one day and she asked the Holy Father what else she could do for the poor and he said well instead of giving them all your money why don't you give them yourself and serve them and so she decided to look into that and she founded the Sisters of the Blessed Sacrament for Indians and colored people whose members would work for the betterment of those
they were called to serve.
And from the age of 33 until her death in 1955, she dedicated her life and fortune of $20 million to this work.
And she opened up schools near Indian reservations and she went down into the South and established the Xavier University in New Orleans for, it was the first school of higher learning, Catholic school for higher learning.
especially dedicated for the African American and minorities.
And she was really quite dedicated to that.
She was eventually beatified by Pope John Paul II on November 20, 1988, and later on became a saint.
Also, I believe, by Pope John Paul II.
She was truly one who, as Saint Paul said,
Purpose of the object of our faith is our salvation and even the young man in the gospel came to our Lord He said good teacher.
What must I do?
To inherit eternal life in other words, what must I do to save my soul?
That's the question that we all must ask ourselves and you might say that Len it's an opportunity for us to say Really to ourselves.
What must I do to inherit into eternal life?
What must I do to save my soul?
this land.
Maybe there's something I need to be doing that I'm not doing or I'm not doing very well that I need to do to save my soul.
And our Lord lays out very nicely and very concisely kind of like the plan.
He says, well, first of all, you must keep the commandments.
That's the basic for any kind of following of Christ.
If you love me, you will keep my commandments.
So he gives them
a brief outline of the Ten Commandments.
And he says, well, I've done all these things for my youth.
And then he says to them, looking at him with love, he says, well, you're lacking one thing, go sell what you have and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven, then come follow me.
Literally, St. Catherine Drexel was a young woman, a rich young woman who came to our Lord and asked him that question.
And instead of turning away sad and downcast,
She embraced that request, that counsel of our Lord, which is known as the evangelical councils.
And she did truly embrace, follow our Lord and gave her money to the poor and really came and followed him with all her heart, soul and mind.
And so we looked to that and we can say, you know, maybe I'm not called to be a religious like St. Catherine Drexel, but we all must
in some way embody that giving everything we have to Christ.
If it means, you know, becoming detached from the things of this world, the point where we maybe need to get rid of some things or maybe we just need to to mortify or modify our use of things because we are giving ourselves to too many other things and we're not following Christ in whatever state in life we are in.
And our Lord
mentions to his disciples how hard it is for those who have wealth to enter the kingdom of God.
I'm sure that St. Catherine Drexel found that was probably a struggle for her.
I'm sure she had to make sacrifices and it wasn't sacrifices that were probably at size, maybe were not as easy.
She was giving up the life of high society in Philadelphia.
She was giving up
her prominence in that sense of life and giving up her money.
But she realized, unlike the rich young man in the Gospel today, how much more she was getting than she was giving up.
She was obtaining and receiving Christ in a fuller sense.
And our Lord said that it was easier for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle than a rich man to enter the kingdom of God.
Well, truly we see in Catherine Drexel
that miraculous saying of our Lord that truly God did accomplish this in Catherine Drexel because she did cooperate with God's grace.
And that's the thing that we need to realize is that our Lord is saying that we need to cooperate.
We need to at least first of all, give him our wills.
We must want what our Lord wants for us.
That's what faith teaches us so well.
The faith that we have received in baptism gives us the light to help us to know we've been given that new birth in Christ.
So now we have what we know what God wants us to do because he has enlightened us with the gift of faith.
We know how we may please God.
Many times, you know, before we even ask someone advice or ask what we must do, we already are being inspired.
And I'm sure if you've been
praying and spending time being recollected and thinking as you're approaching Lent.
God's already putting some big signposts, you might say, or some big little pop-ups in your little brain saying, you know, this is something you should look at.
This is something you need to look at because this is a matter you need to attend to this Lent.
And he is truly enlightening us because faith
is for the salvation of our souls.
That's the object of it.
So God and His great mercy is giving us many opportunities and many times indications of where we need to work on in our spiritual life.
And one of those big opportunities is the season of Lent that's soon approaching.
And we need to take stock and ask ourselves, good teacher, what must I do to inherit eternal life?
and look and see how I'm doing with regards to the Ten Commandments, summed up in love of God and love of neighbor.
And that's why you might say that Lent incorporates all those things that our Lord really did tell the rich young man.
He said, you know, you must keep the commandments.
You must follow me in prayer and penance and in almsgiving.
And those are the things that the church is going to be
He might say hammering away at us as we approach the land and as we're inland, the Ten Commandments, right living, love God, love neighbor.
How do I love God and love my neighbor?
First and foremost, because I'm going to do, I'm going to pray and I'm going to do penance.
And then I'm going to give alms.
That's how I show my love for God and neighbor.
And the alms may be money like Catherine Drexel had plenty, but it also may be
giving more and more of myself to my neighbor by spending maybe some time with them.
Some of the poor in our world today are so many people who are in the care homes.
You know, when we look at our world and how we're, because of contraception, we're becoming such a society of aged people.
Maybe the poor you need to attend to is to go see someone in a care home and visit those who have been sadly neglected
maybe because they don't have any family, or their family has forgotten them because out of sight, out of mind, these are the poor in our world today.
Those who were very much neglected and deprived of human comfort, human friendship, human compassion.
And we need to become more mindful of that as Pope Francis said.
We need to get out of our comfort zone
Maybe that is one of the things we need to look at especially in this season of Lent, is to get away from our little electronic devices and start looking to see who are the people in the world around us, who we can give them our attention and our charity in some way.
Let us ask today in a special way our lady,
the Queen of Virgins who gave the grace to St. Catherine Drexel to inspire her to give her life to our Lord.
And St. Catherine recognized that in the blessed sacrament, she would therefore be able to better, first of all, love Jesus in the Eucharist.
And then I'll be able to love him in my neighbor in the poor, especially the minorities that were sadly neglected and
and discriminated against, and maybe still are in many cases, and truly went out of her way to show them Christian charity.
And let us ask our lady, this in our own lives, what must I do to inherit eternal life?
What area must I give to Jesus and to ask Him what I must do to follow Him in the way
of evangelical perfection.
In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit.
Amen.
We hope you enjoyed this sermon entitled Saint Drexel, the rich young woman.
Our next sermon for today is entitled, Vincible versus Invincible Ignorance.
Praise be Jesus and Mary.
Amen.
Today's Gospel taken from Matthew chapter 20.
We see three examples of a certain ignorance regarding the truth.
First, our Lord takes the apostles aside.
He foretells his death and resurrection and St. Luke's account of the same instance.
St. Luke says to the 12, quote, understood none of these things.
They didn't grasp what he said.
Luke 18 verse 34.
And then we heard the mother of James and John asking for her sons to be seated right beside Jesus and his kingdom and our Lord responds by telling her and telling them that they don't understand essentially what they're asking, that they're ignorant of the suffering that's involved for those who want to reign alongside of Jesus.
That's Matthew 20 verses 21 and 22.
And then
Jesus corrects the other apostles saying that they don't understand greatness in God's eyes that greatness is found in service and sacrifice.
Matthew 20 verses 25 through 28.
So there's a lot of ignorance about things with the apostles as our Lord was training and forming them on how to be true disciples of his and to be leaders in the church.
So we thought we'd give a brief reflection on how ignorance
plays a part in our spiritual journey, particularly in the moral life.
In fact, in moral theology, they typically talk about two different types of ignorance, either invincible ignorance or invincible ignorance.
If you have what's called a true or a correct conscience, that means that you're able to judge the moral quality of an action according to what's true.
So you judge a good action as good, you judge a bad action as bad or evil.
If you have what's called an erroneous conscience, it means that you judge an action that's good to be bad and vice versa.
And that's when the question of invincible or invincible ignorance comes in.
Erroneous again means that I'm in error about my judgments and the error could regard the law or the commandments itself.
So if I think it's okay to deny someone who's in a vegetative state, food and water, then
I'm ignorant about the basic care that must be given and must not be denied persons in that condition.
Or I couldn't be in error about the facts regarding an action.
So maybe I could know that someone who's terminally ill should not be denied food or water.
But maybe I'm just unaware of the fact that this particular person in front of me actually isn't being fed, for example.
What's the description of someone who has invincible ignorance?
Well, invincible means what we commonly understand it to mean.
It means that it can't be overcome.
Someone has invincible ignorance.
One, when they don't even suspect that their own opinion is wrong and must be abandoned.
Or two, when even after reflection and research and seeking counsel from wise persons regarding a problem, when even after all that,
They still arrive at the wrong conclusion.
They still conclude something that's objectively wrong.
That's also invincible ignorance.
It could be a question of a lack of intelligence with some people.
It could even be a psychological problem with others or some other difficulty, but they remain invincibly ignorant.
Vensible ignorance is a little different.
It's when we have doubts about our opinion or on something.
either because of just an interior uncertainty, I'm not so sure about this, or because the opinion of people who are competent regarding the issue contrasts with my own opinion.
So someone who knows something more about it says something different than what I think.
And instead of acting to discover what the truth is, we refuse to do so.
You know, either it could be because of laziness or stubbornness or pride, because we don't want to give up our wrong opinions.
or even malice or even for some other reasons as well.
So, invincible ignorance is caused by my willing to remain ignorant.
Invincible ignorance is not willed neither directly nor indirectly.
People are not held morally responsible or culpable by God for invincible ignorance.
For invincible ignorance, yes, they are held responsible even if it's just because they neglect or they're lazy about
finding out the truth about something.
However, even invincible ignorance at times can lessen our degree of culpability.
For example, if I was negligent years ago about finding out whether or not I could receive holy communion without going to confession after committing the sin of self abuse to use the euphemistic term for it, the thought came to my mind years ago
I should ask a priest about this but I decided not to either because I didn't want to have the right answer or just because of laziness and now years later it doesn't even occur to me that I need to go to confession before receiving Holy Communion.
I'm still responsible before God for years ago when I didn't ask the priest when I thought maybe I should.
Now that ignorance has become basically a form of invincible ignorance.
I'm just not even aware that there's a problem anymore.
And so for now, that lessens my culpability until, until either the Lord or someone else helps reawaken my conscience.
And then I have once again, the choice I can choose whether or not I'm going to repent and embrace the truth and find out the truth.
Or voluntarily, I can willfully remain in error.
That's an example of when invincible ignorance can be lessened as far as being responsible for it.
When it comes to my attention, I do need again to resolve the problem.
Instructing the ignorant is the first spiritual work of mercy.
So it's generally a good principle to enlighten someone about the truth.
If we see that they're in error about something, particularly regarding the faith or morals,
However, we can also, we need to try to discern and be careful.
We have to see, is this person open to the truth or not?
And if they're not, then often it's better to wait until they give some signs of being open or until they're in difficulty and they actually come to us and they ask for advice.
We don't want to either also, we don't want to badger or beat up people over the head with the truth because often that
just drives them further away.
So we want to avoid that extreme as well.
We pray that the Holy Spirit will work in their hearts and be patient with them as the Lord is patient with us.
Sooner or later, God will turn on the light inside of their consciences and they'll have the opportunity to decide whether or not they want to embrace the truth or remain in the dark in ignorance.
So we pray for them and ask our ladies intercession for those who are ignorant that our Lord would enlighten them.
that he would continue to enlighten us as well.
Praise be Jesus and Mary.
We hope you enjoyed this sermon entitled, VINCIBLE VS INVINCIBLE IGNORANCE.
Our final sermon for today is entitled, HOLY TIPS FOR A HOLY LENT.
Father, under the Son, under the Holy Spirit.
Amen.
Brothers and sisters of Christ, we are on this journey to the cross in Lent.
This is the imitation of Jesus Christ in his 40 days when he was tempted by Satan in the desert.
The pistol today and the scripture speak of both of the same thing.
We can do all of these exterior actions, arms giving, fasting,
and all these acts in this period of length, but first of all they must be fueled with the correct interior disposition, this attitude and spirit of interior sacrifice and self-denial.
We all know that we must embark on this path of holiness and live a life of virtue.
This is the way to sanctity to which all in each every one of us is called.
We all have to face the cross.
We need the cross.
The cross is our food of life.
Where would we be if there was not the opportunity to practice these virtues of patience and perseverance throughout the day through the cross?
Where would we be if everybody lived together in this nicey, nicey life without the cross and the grace to overcome these temptations?
We give you some tips now how to lead a holy land.
Four beautiful tips, but one of the tips we've mentioned first in case we forget is the power of the Word of God.
Please, if you have the time, read the Scripture every day.
Remember the beautiful words of the Scripture, cut to your heart for an interior conversion.
The word of God is so powerful.
It is a living word.
It is not dead.
The Bible is the book of salvation.
So read it.
The first tip that we can give is a word that we hardly ever hear, but it's a beautiful word which we should reflect on.
It's called desire.
Desire to embark upon the path of Christian perfection.
We need this.
in our hearts.
We are all called to this life of Christian affection.
We all have to have this foundation, this root, this first building block, this desire to be holy.
Have you got this desire in Lent to be holy and to have a Lent more perfect than the rest in your history in order to make reparation for your
sins and my sins and to give glory to God the Father.
What is this desire of perfection then?
This may be defined as an act of the human will which under the influence of grace ever seeks after spiritual progress.
Notice this desire is not some sentimental passion or feeling but something concrete and fixed in the human will.
We can give a small example
Now how many people in their families and including ourselves in the past have these addictions to certain things?
What about an alcoholic?
Alcoholic, he can overcome his addiction.
Dear brothers and sisters of Christ, even on a natural level, first if he has the desire to be dry.
I remember in the seminary thinking about the grace to be a priest and the priest give the homily on this subject.
Do not pray, he said.
to become a priest but pray for the desire to receive the holy orders.
This stuck my heart so have this desire to be holy and to have a holy length this time round.
The second tip, be constant and persevere in your journey of faith.
Jesus Christ told his disciples, a parable on the necessity of praying, always never losing heart.
1 Thessalonians 516, pray always be joyful and be constant in your prayer because this is the will of Christ Jesus for you.
Consonancy is one of these most crucial virtues but one which is always forgotten.
It is about being faithful and resolute and being steadfast in the pursuit of one's goals and belief.
One who is constant does not change with the wind of culture, be built on the rock
Jesus Christ and not on the quicksand.
Constancy is the key to the development of any virtue.
Without constancy there is little hope that we would have enough strength of character to deal with the crosses, disappointments, frustrations and temptations in life and limitations which are part of the human lot since the fall of Adam and Eve.
Constancy enables us to go through these difficult times, staying on the correct and faithful path on the narrow way, rather than choosing the destructive road or the broad way.
Jesus Christ wants to know if He will find any faith when He returns in this life.
Will He find the virtue of constancy upon His return?
If He does the odds are very high then He will find this faith.
The third tip on Lent.
Know that Jesus Christ is pursuing you always like the hound of heaven to save your soul.
Jesus Christ is desperate that you be in heaven with Him.
Jesus wants above all in this Lent a holy transformation and conversion of your soul.
This is what we spoke about at the beginning.
There's no point in all of these exterior sacrifices.
If there is nothing going on interiorly in your heart and soul, we need this interior sacrifice in this spirit of self-denial.
Jesus wants you to turn back to Him with a contrite heart.
Jesus wants your heart to be cut in a new way.
We all give up certain things in Lent like sugar in our teapops or chocolate.
Why not give up sinning and vice?
Stop sinning anymore.
against the Sacred Heart of Jesus and the Immaculate Heart of Mary, embark on a life of virtue to please our Lord.
As according to the great Saint Leo, the main thing in fasting is not that we be deprived of food, but that the mind at the same time withdrawn from wickedness.
We should endeavor during this land not only to be temperate in eating and drinking, but also lead a more modest life.
sanctifying the days by persevering in prayer and attending the holy sacraments, especially the sacrament of confession.
This is what we need to do to have a holy Lent.
As we pray in the holy sacrifice of the Mass, this is where we enter into the mystery of the cross.
This is where we need to have this interior disposition
in the mass of the ages.
Let us put on then in this land in charity the garment of Jesus Christ and the Blessed Virgin Mary.
Another point to have a holy land is we cannot speak of a holy land without the Blessed Virgin Mary.
She is our mother, the most perfect role model in Lent.
She is so pure, beautiful,
and holy.
She has our mother given to us at the foot of the cross.
Remember, she suffered the pains of our childbirth spiritually at the foot of the cross.
Can we imagine for one moment the sorrows of Mary, our mother, in 40 days before the passionate and violent execution of her beloved son some 2,000 years ago?
Remember, as we have said before, she had the foreknowledge
and vision what was to transpire in her whole life.
She had before her eyes the mystery of the cross.
Moment by moment her love for Jesus Christ magnified in proportion to her desolate sorrow.
In seeing the dreadful torment she had to come.
She is the one to guide us through this rocky passage of land, to understand the mystery of the glory of the cross.
She is the one whom we must consecrate ourselves
two, because this is the wisdom of our times.
Seek this land then to stop sinning.
Stop offending the Lord.
In short, be holy because you can transmit this holiness to other souls to save their souls.
How can we imagine the horror of sin?
As we've said before, if you have the grace,
to be able to see into souls like Padre Pio or put on some special supernatural glasses.
When you could see somebody in a state of disgrace or in mortal sin, surely you would die of fright.
Surely you would die of fright.
Can you imagine the spiritual battle that is going on above our heads?
We cannot see this and perhaps this is a grace from God that we cannot see it because we will be terrified.
But if you have a Holy Land, imagine putting on the same glasses and looking at somebody who is in a state of grace, a charity in their store, a state of supernatural grace.
You would think that they were God or an angel and surely you would die in joy.
Let us then ask
for these graces from the Blessed Virgin Mary and the ardent desire to walk this path of Christian perfection, a persevering and ardent consistency in our Lenten passage, and especially a profound and deep conversion of heart.
To holy mass now, the crucifixion and death of Jesus Christ, our most perfect redeemer allows us to enter into this mystery with Mary in this profound mystery at Golgotha.
We turn back to tradition with Mary in order to move forward for the maximum glory of God and the salvation of all souls.
Amen.
May the holy names of Jesus, Mary and Joseph be blessed now and forever.
In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit.
Amen.
This has been Sermons for Everyday Living from the Station of the Cross Catholic Media Network.
Please pray three Hail Marys for the priest who preached in today's show.
To share this episode or to hear it again, find us on your favorite podcasting app under Sermons for Everyday Living.
Have a blessed day.